All of us around the world
rejoice with you baptismal candidates.
This is a very special occasion for you.
Today, you will join millions
of your brothers and sisters
in a very special relationship with Jehovah.
I want you to imagine for a moment
that you’re in a very large stadium
and there are eight and a half million
of your brothers and sisters
all in this stadium clapping and so happy
to see the stand
you’re taking for Jehovah today.
Some of you are young ones
that are raised in the truth,
and you’re sitting
with your parents and family.
Others of you may have known
the truth years ago
and have recently returned to Jehovah.
Others may have learned the truth recently
and, even under these unusual circumstances
of a pandemic and Zoom meetings,
have come to the point
of dedicating your life to Jehovah.
Whatever your circumstances,
we are so happy that you’ve made
the decision to get baptized.
Now, the theme of our talk
with you baptism candidates
is “Exercising Faith Means Everlasting Life!”
There are two key words here:
exercising and faith.
Faith is your trust and confidence
in Jehovah and his promises.
And exercising your faith
is living your life to do God’s will.
You’ve shown your faith
by working hard to qualify for baptism today.
Now, faith is a little bit like
building a wood fire.
If you want to build a fire,
you first have to collect
some small pieces of wood.
And then, later, you need to have on hand
some larger pieces of wood
to keep the fire going.
Likewise, your baptism today
is the start of your fire of faith.
Now, it’s not easy to start a fire at times.
The wood may be wet.
The wind keeps blowing out your flame.
Likewise, it may not have been easy for you
to get the fire of your faith started.
You have taken the time and effort
to build your fire of faith.
Now you need to keep
that fire of faith burning.
Why?
Well, because our faith can become weak
unless we work to keep it strong.
On one occasion, Jesus said to some
of his disciples that they had little faith.
Let’s look at that at Matthew 17:20.
Matthew 17:20:
“He said to them:
‘Because of your little faith.
“‘For truly I say to you,
“‘if you have faith
the size of a mustard grain,
“‘you will say to this mountain,
“Move from here to there,”
and it will move,
and nothing will be impossible for you.’”
Jesus was letting them know
that they needed
to make their faith stronger.
Now, after a fire gets started,
it can often get very large and very hot.
But if there’s no wood added to the fire,
what happens?
It soon goes out
and turns to just cold ashes.
So in order for us to keep
our fire of faith burning,
we need to keep feeding it.
Likewise, your fire of faith
needs constant attention
to keep burning hot and bright.
Let’s consider three questions:
(1) How can you feed your fire of faith?
(2) What does it mean to exercise faith?
(3) How will Jehovah reward your faith?
Before we answer those questions, though,
we will talk to two baptized Witnesses
who have taken steps
to make their faith stronger.
First, let’s talk to Jouni Palmu.
Brother Palmu and his wife, Heli,
serve at Bethel in Finland.
And he has faithfully served
Jehovah for 60 years.
And I want you to note
what helped Brother Palmu
face a test of his faith
early in his pioneering.
Brother Palmu, can you recall a time
when you had little faith?
Yes, I can recall.
When I was 17, I moved
to serve as an auxiliary pioneer
with an isolated group far away from my home.
There I faced very religious people
who were convinced
that we Witnesses were wrong
and that I was badly misled.
They asked questions about scriptures
I never encountered in my former territory.
The people were very convincing
with their arguments,
and I felt confused and lost.
I asked myself,
‘Are there other questions too
that I don’t have answers to?’
And this started, little by little,
bothering me and tested my faith.
So there you were, young and isolated,
with all those questions.
What did you do to strengthen your faith?
I didn’t have bound volumes,
no Watchtower Library,
or those kinds of tools.
So I wrote a letter to my fleshly brothers
who at that time were in prison
because of refusing military service.
I knew that they had
all of our literature there,
and they were studying every day
the Bible, like scholars.
They saw my situation,
and they sent me a letter with answers
to all my questions.
I was so happy and thanked Jehovah.
It really strengthened my faith.
Jehovah used your brothers
in prison to help you.
So how do you think you benefited
from strengthening your faith?
This experience was decisive
—a hallmark to my whole spiritual life.
I understood the value of accurate knowledge,
and I started to collect a library of my own.
I still have my early library,
and to me, it is something very special.
This experience happened 56 years ago,
and since then,
I have not had any such doubts.
Jehovah has given us all
the answers we need to know.
And even
if there are questions we don’t have
answers to at the moment,
I have faith that they will be answered
by Jehovah in his due time.
Thank you, Brother Palmu.
Your experience really helps us to appreciate
the Bible’s answers
to life’s most complex questions.
Next, we can talk to Frankie Brown.
Brother Brown and his wife, Karen,
serve at Bethel in the United States.
And I want you to pay close attention
to what helped Brother Brown
to make the decision
to dedicate his life to Jehovah.
Brother Brown, can you recall a time
when you had little faith?
Until the age of 12,
I was raised by my grandmother,
who studied with Jehovah’s Witnesses.
This is how I was introduced to the truth,
and I studied off and on growing up.
At 17, like many young people,
I faced the decision of what
to do with my life after school.
Many around me just assumed
I’d go off to college and pursue a career.
However, from my study of the Bible,
I knew I had another choice to make
—to serve Jehovah.
This was a big decision for me.
At times, I had no idea what I wanted to do.
I was inexperienced and unsure
about whose advice to take
—the Bible’s
or that of well-meaning family and friends.
That’s quite a challenging decision
for you at that age to make.
What did you do to strengthen your faith?
I realized that I needed
to know Jehovah better
and what was involved in serving him.
So I resumed my Bible study
and attendance at Christian meetings.
I also began to do personal study.
One personal study project was Psalm 119.
This beautiful psalm
helped me to view Jehovah
as the loving Father I never had.
It also helped me to see the wisdom
of living in harmony
with the Bible’s standards.
For example, Psalm 119:99 says:
“I have more insight than all my teachers,
because I ponder over your reminders.”
Essentially, the psalmist was saying
that Jehovah was his Guidance Counselor.
Also, I’ve benefited from the good example
of the brothers
and sisters in my congregation.
They had already made the decision
to serve Jehovah, and from their life,
it was obvious they were truly happy
and had a meaningful life.
This convinced me that serving Jehovah
was the best way to use my life.
I thank Jehovah for their good example
and for their efforts to help me
at a time when I needed more faith.
Your personal study and help
from the brothers and sisters
in your congregation really helped you.
So how do you think you benefited
from strengthening your faith?
I got baptized, started pioneering,
and some years later was invited to Bethel.
From my youth onward, I have found security
and stability
in my relationship with Jehovah.
When I look back on my decision
to dedicate my life to Jehovah,
without a doubt that’s
the best decision I’ve ever made.
Whether young or old,
Jehovah will not let you down
when you need him the most.
Thank you, Brother Brown.
You made a good choice.
Let’s go back to our three questions.
Consider our first question:
How can you feed the fire of your faith?
Well, the Bible is our main source of fuel
to feed the fire of our faith.
To feed the fire of our faith,
we need to do two things.
We need to read God’s Word
and meditate on it.
Now, reading God’s Word
is like adding wood to our fire,
and meditation
is a lot like fanning the flames.
Let’s discuss these one at a time.
First, let’s use the example
of the psalmist at Psalm
chapter 1, verses 1-3.
Psalm 1:1-3:
“Happy is the man who does not walk
“according to the advice of the wicked
“and does not stand on the path of sinners
“and does not sit in the seat of scoffers.
“But his delight is in the law of Jehovah,
“and he reads His law in an undertone
“day and night.
“He will be like a tree planted
by streams of water,
“a tree that produces fruit in its season,
“the foliage of which does not wither.
And everything he does will succeed.”
Well, we want to be like
that man in this psalm.
“His delight is in the law of Jehovah.”
When we find delight, or pleasure,
in reading God’s Word,
it’s not like we have to read God’s Word,
but we want to read God’s Word.
He reads His law “day and night.”
Jehovah wants us to read his Word often.
Prayer is when we speak to Jehovah,
but reading the Bible
is when he speaks to us.
I’d like you to notice
the beautiful mental picture
that Isaiah gives us
of how Jehovah speaks to us
at Isaiah 30:21.
Isaiah 30:21:
“And your own ears will hear a word
behind you
“saying, ‘This is the way.
“Walk in it,’ in case you
should go to the right
or in case you should go to the left.”
Well, why do we hear Jehovah’s voice
behind us instead of in front of us?
Well, for one thing,
Jehovah’s words in the Bible
were written many years ago or, we could say,
in a time in the past—behind us.
But there’s another way
to visualize this verse.
Maybe you’ve been with a group
with some small children,
and you’re walking somewhere.
Where often are the children?
They’re out in front running ahead,
even if they don’t really know
where they’re going.
And what do the parents behind have to do?
Well, they have to call to them and say:
“No, no, no, not that way!
We’re going to the left here.”
And the children run back,
and that’s the direction that they go in.
Surely, we want to listen carefully
for Jehovah’s voice behind us, helping us
to make the right decisions.
Try to schedule Bible reading
as part of your daily routine.
As a suggestion, you can use the schedule
for Bible reading that’s found on jw.org.
To find it, type “schedule for Bible reading”
in the search field at the top right.
If you read just three
to five chapters every day,
you can complete
the entire Bible in just one year.
But simply reading God’s Word is not enough.
You need to meditate on what you are reading.
Well, why should you meditate
on what you read in God’s Word?
Well, it’s because knowing
what the right thing to do is
and doing it are not the same.
Meditation is the process
of converting knowledge—that is, what we know
into wise decisions and actions.
The Bible often associates
meditation with the heart.
Now, why is that?
Because meditation can convert knowledge
—that is, what we know into feelings.
And it is those feelings that drive
our actions and decisions.
We could kind of think
of meditation like a bridge.
On this side of the river, we have knowing
what the right thing to do is,
and on this side, we have actually doing it.
Meditation is the bridge
that closes the gap
between knowing and doing.
And if we find ourselves always
kind of knowing what the right thing to do is
but not actually doing it,
meditation is the bridge to help us
close that gap between knowing and doing.
Well, how can you meditate on God’s Word?
Well, after reading a portion of the Bible
or one of our publications,
take a few moments to think deeply
about what you have read.
Ask yourself:
‘What do I learn about Jehovah
when I read this account?
‘How does this account
make me feel about Jehovah?
‘How can I apply this in my life?
Or how can I use this to help others?’
So let’s review our first question:
How can you feed the fire of your faith?
Read and meditate on God’s Word each day.
Let’s look at our second question:
What does it mean to exercise faith?
Well, Jesus told us that more was required
than just believing in him.
Let’s read John 3:16
to see the emphasis that Jesus put
on exercising faith.
John 3:16:
“For God loved the world so much
“that he gave his only-begotten Son,
“so that everyone exercising faith in him
might not be destroyed
but have everlasting life.”
So, then, what does it mean
to exercise faith?
A study note on this verse explains:
“‘To exercise faith’ includes the idea
“of demonstrating
one’s strong beliefs or faith
[by obeying God].”
Abraham was a powerful example
of proving his faith by obedience.
Let’s look at a very wonderful description
of Abraham’s faith
at James 2:21-23.
James 2:21-23:
“Was not Abraham our father
declared righteous by works
“after he offered up
Isaac his son on the altar?
“You see that his faith was active
“along with his works and his faith
“was perfected by his works,
“and the scripture was fulfilled that says:
“‘Abraham put faith in Jehovah,
“and it was counted to him as righteousness,’
and he came to be called Jehovah’s friend.”
When we read and we meditate
on the account of Abraham,
we can feel the emotions
that he must have felt
in being asked to offer up his son Isaac,
the only son that he and Sarah had.
How could Abraham
make such a very difficult decision?
Well, long before this,
Abraham had made a decision
that he would obey Jehovah
and serve him in everything.
And that decision years before
to obey Jehovah in all things
helped Abraham to make
all the other decisions
in life clear on what he should do.
He did not always have to consider,
‘Should I do what Jehovah asks or not?’
As difficult a request
as it was to offer up his son,
Abraham did not delay
and took action immediately
to obey Jehovah’s request.
Now, by your baptism today,
you’re telling everyone
that you have dedicated your life to Jehovah
—to serve and obey him
for the rest of your life.
Now let’s consider three scriptures
and see how you can show your faith
by your actions.
Once we read each scripture,
we’ll consider how each scripture
is part of your dedication promise
and how you can show your faith in action.
Our first scripture is Hebrews 10:25.
Hebrews 10:25 says:
“Not forsaking our meeting together,
as some have the custom,
“but encouraging one another,
“and all the more so
as you see the day drawing near.”
Your dedication promise:
“I will attend all meetings,
assemblies, and conventions.”
Well, how do you show that
by faith in action?
Well, you really need a job,
but you say no to a job
that would mean that you
would regularly miss meetings.
You don’t have to decide,
‘Should I go to meetings or not?’
You’ve already made that decision
when you dedicated yourself to Jehovah.
Our second scripture is Romans 10:10.
Romans 10:10:
“For with the heart
one exercises faith for righteousness,
“but with the mouth
one makes public declaration for salvation.”
So your dedication promise:
“I want everyone to know about Jehovah.”
Your faith in action?
Well, going to bed early
so that you can get up
for field service the next morning,
auxiliary pioneering when you can,
scheduling field service first
and then other activities later in the day,
or adapting to different forms
of the ministry,
like telephone witnessing or letter writing.
Our third scripture is Mark 11:24.
Mark 11:24:
“This is why I tell you,
all the things you pray and ask for,
“have faith that you have received them,
and you will have them.”
Well, your dedication promise:
“I will constantly seek
Jehovah’s direction in prayer.”
Your faith in action?
When you’re tempted
to play a violent video game,
you reject that game and play something else.
When faced with a serious illness,
you pray for calm and wisdom
to make good decisions.
When you feel yourself
getting angry with someone,
you pray for self-control.
Now, we could use many more scriptures,
and we could give you many more examples
of how you can exercise
and show your faith by your actions.
The point is that you baptismal candidates
have dedicated your life
to Jehovah and to do his will.
This one decision to dedicate your life
and to live by his standards
sets the spiritual and moral foundation
for all the decisions you will make
from this day forward.
So let’s review our second question:
What does it mean to exercise faith?
We show our faith by our obedience to God.
Now let’s go to our third question:
How will Jehovah reward your faith?
Jehovah loves his faithful worshippers.
He wants the best for us,
and he wants us to be happy.
Jehovah sees every time you
do something to demonstrate your faith
—to show faith in action,
to be obedient to him.
Now, some feel that God, or Jehovah,
is always watching out
for the bad things that they do,
maybe keeping a ledger,
keeping track, of all these
bad things that a person does.
But Jehovah is not doing that.
He’s actually looking for the good
and rejoicing in the good that we are doing.
We could kind of illustrate it by the way
that many of us are taking
so many pictures these days.
We all have phones, cameras.
We’re taking lots of pictures.
And maybe you’ve noticed that at one point,
you take a picture of one of your friends
and they have kind
of a funny look on their face
or they are in the middle
of eating something.
If you show your friend that picture,
what do they often say?
“Could you please delete that?”
That’s not the picture
they want you to show to other people,
and that’s not the picture
you want to show of them.
Now I want you to imagine for a moment
that Jehovah has
a digital photo album of you.
Which pictures do you think
he’s keeping there?
the ones where we made serious mistakes?
the ones where we did something dumb?
No.
Based on your repentance
and the ransom sacrifice, those are deleted.
They’re gone.
He has in his photo album of you
the beautiful pictures
—the beautiful moments
that he’s proud of when
you showed your faith in action.
Jehovah wants to reward your faith.
At Hebrews 11:6,
we can see how Jehovah
feels about his servants
by what he says here about rewarding them.
Hebrews 11:6:
“Moreover, without faith
“it is impossible to please God well,
“for whoever approaches God
“must believe that he is
and that he becomes the rewarder
of those earnestly seeking him.”
So when listing
all these other examples of faith
there in chapter 11 of Hebrews,
the apostle Paul pauses for a moment
to remind us that Jehovah
“becomes the rewarder
of those earnestly seeking him.”
Now, when you take the time
and effort to build a fire,
what reward do you get in return?
Well, you get the warmth
and light of that fire.
You can keep yourself
and others warm by the fire,
and a fire gives off a beautiful light
that can be very welcome on a dark night.
The sounds of a crackling fire
can make us feel safe and happy.
How will Jehovah reward
his faithful worshippers
for their fire of faith?
Well, ultimately, He will reward us
with everlasting life.
During his ministry,
Jesus repeatedly promised
that his faithful servants
would get everlasting life.
Just as Jehovah provided
the rewards of a wood fire,
he also provides many gifts
that come when we build
and feed our fire of faith.
Consider some of the rewards
that Jehovah gives us now.
The reward of his Word, the Bible,
gives us the best advice for life.
It lights our way
in a spiritually dark world.
The reward of the ministry
is the most satisfying work that we can do.
The reward of holy spirit
is a powerful helper in times of trials.
Remember, you are never alone.
And the reward of our loving group
of brothers and sisters around the world
is a source of great warmth and comfort.
In conclusion,
let’s review our three questions:
(1) How can you feed your fire of faith?
Read and meditate on God’s Word each day.
(2) What does it mean to exercise faith?
We show our faith by our obedience to God.
(3) How will Jehovah reward your faith?
Everlasting life.
Please take note of this day.
Remember it; write it down.
Each time you hear
a baptism talk in the future,
take that opportunity
to reflect on your baptism
and the many blessings that you have received
because of the decision that you made
to dedicate your life to Jehovah.
Jehovah wants you to be happy
and to enjoy life.
All eight and a half million plus
of your brothers and sisters
who are watching this program
are with you in heart and mind,
and we want you to be happy.
Keep clear in mind, though,
that happiness is not something
that you can buy for yourself
or get for yourself,
and you can’t get it by loving yourself.
Just like warmth and light
are by-products of a wood fire,
so too happiness is a by-product of faith
and love for others and for Jehovah.
We could say that happiness
is the warmth and glow from love’s fire.
The world will tell you:
“You can follow your dreams.
You can be anything you want to be.”
But it is far better
to let Jehovah dream for you.
Your life serving Jehovah
can be far greater than anything
you could dream up for yourself.
Please, from this day forward,
be determined to keep feeding
and exercising your faith.